Data Methodology Case Study

Which topic did you choose to apply the data science methodology to?

ANS: I choose emails in a scenario where we should use email content information to find out whether the email is spam or not.  

Next, you will play the role of the client and the data scientist.

Using the topic that you selected, complete the Business Understanding stage by coming up with a problem that you would like to solve and phrasing it in the form of a question that you will use data to answer.

You are required to:

Describe the problem, related to the topic you selected. Phrase the problem as a question to be answered using data. For example, using the food recipes use case discussed in the labs, the question that we defined was, "Can we automatically determine the cuisine of a given dish based on its ingredients?".

ANS: Problem description:

Hackers and spammers troll the internet looking for computers, phones, tablets, and other connected devices that are not updated with security software. When they find unprotected 
devices they try to install software- called malware- that lets them control the device remotely. By controlling the device spammers build botnets and send thousands
of emails. Spammer tricks victims for data, money, or infected malware into their devices. So we should identify whether the email is spam or not. 
Though we have a spam email filter on every email browser, hacker invents new ways for spam emails. We analyze the content of emails and make an updated spam filter. 
Question:

Based on the email content, how can we a spam email filter?

Briefly explain how you would complete each of the following stages for the problem that you described in the Business Understanding stage, so that you are ultimately able to answer the question that you came up with. (5 marks):

Analytic Approach Data Requirements Data Collection Data Understanding and Preparation Modeling and Evaluation You can always refer to the labs as a reference with describing how you would complete each stage for your problem.

ANS: 1. Analytic Approach: As long as we are looking at whether an email is a spam or not. We need to apply for the classification model.  
Data Requirements
We need to collect some samples of spam emails as well as real emails with omitting real names. 
We can find the data from any email service company that collects data for analysis.

Data Collection
The email service company provides data to identified people(such as students) for analyzing their data for research purposes for free. We can collect data from 
these company data through API. This API contains the email contents in JSON format.

Data Understanding and Preparation
  We need to convert the email contains into a pandas data frame in jupyter notebook and do data preprocessing like uncompleted information, invalid content, null value and string.
Then we need to do data processing to find out the attribute of the email like whether there is content or not,
The word numbers, the most frequent words, the sender address, the most frequent words of the sender address.
In this stage, we can do EDA with data visualization. After that, we make new data set by doing feature engineering of the attribute of the content of email and make ready for modelling.

Model and Evaluation

Then we split the dataset into train and test splits and apply some classification models to the new dataset. By comparing the model accuracy we select the model for real-time data.Then  And find out which models work best. By gathering all the
with that knowledge, we build a new app for spam emails.We can evaluate the model by testing real data accuracy.
